It is a truth universally acknowledged, that a single man in possession
of a good fortune must be in want of a wife.

However little known the feelings or views of such a man may be on his
first entering a neighbourhood, this truth is so well fixed in the minds
of the surrounding families, that he is considered as the rightful
property of some one or other of their daughters.

Mr. Bennet was so odd a mixture of quick parts, sarcastic humour,
reserve, and caprice, that the experience of three-and-twenty years had
been insufficient to make his wife understand his character. Her mind
was less difficult to develope. She was a woman of mean understanding,
little information, and uncertain temper. When she was discontented, she
fancied herself nervous. The business of her life was to get her
daughters married: its solace was visiting and news.

Elizabeth had the satisfaction of seeing her father taking pains to get
acquainted with him; and Mr. Bennet soon assured her that he was rising
every hour in his esteem.

She is tolerable, but not handsome enough to tempt me; and I am in no
humour at present to give consequence to young ladies who are slighted
by other men.

In vain have I struggled. It will not do. My feelings will not be
repressed. You must allow me to tell you how ardently I admire and
love you.

I cannot fix on the hour, or the spot, or the look, or the words, which
laid the foundation. It is too long ago. I was in the middle before I
knew that I had begun.

There is, I believe, in every disposition a tendency to some particular
evil, a natural defect, which not even the best education can overcome.

Vanity and pride are different things, though the words are often used
synonymously. A person may be proud without being vain. Pride relates
more to our opinion of ourselves, vanity to what we would have others
think of us.

I have been a selfish being all my life, in practice, though not in
principle. As a child I was taught what was right, but I was not taught
to correct my temper. I was given good principles, but left to follow
them in pride and conceit.

Angry people are not always wise.

Think only of the past as its remembrance gives you pleasure.

Till this moment I never knew myself.

-- Jane Austen, Pride and Prejudice (1813)
   Source: Project Gutenberg, https://www.gutenberg.org/ebooks/1342
